.TH mount_filers.conf 5  "November 14, 2011" "version 0.4.3" "FILE FORMAT"
.SH NAME
mount_filers.conf \- local configuration to set up filers facility access
.SH SYNOPSIS
The mount_filers.conf is a configuration file for the mount_filers tool.
It contains runtime configuration information that describes what mount has to be
available for the users.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file consists of sections and parameters\&. A section begins with the name of the section in square brackets and continues until the next section begins\&. Sections contain parameters of the form:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.fam C
.ps -1
.nf
.if t \{\
.sp -1
.\}
.BB lightgray adjust-for-leading-newline
.sp -1

\fIname\fR = \fIvalue \fR
.EB lightgray adjust-for-leading-newline
.if t \{\
.sp 1
.\}
.fi
.fam
.ps +1
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP
The file is line\-based \- that is, each newline\-terminated line represents either a comment, a section name or a parameter\&.
.PP
A comment starts with a # character
.SH "SECTION DESCRIPTIONS"
.PP
6 categories of sections are expected :
   [global]
   [config]
   [require]
   [substitution]
   [mount]
   [message]
.SS "The [global] section"
This section describes settings that will be used for all mount sections.
It must be unique.
.PP
Fields :
   \fImethod\fR     : which method to use (smb, gvfs_smb, mount.cifs, mount_smbfs, ...)
   \fIusername\fR   : for authtication while mounting
   \fIdomain\fR     : for authtication while mounting
   \fIauth_realm\fR : not the password, but the realm associated to it.
                If several mounts use the same auth_realm, then the
                password is only asked once.
   \fImount.cifs_filemode\fR : option given to mount.cifs
   \fImount.cifs_dirmode\fR  : option given to mount.cifs
   \fImount.cifs_options\fR  : option given to mount.cifs
   \fIgvfs_symlink\fR : specific to methods gvfs_*. Enables the creation
                  of a symbolic link to "local_path" after mount.
                  default : True
   \fIopen\fR     : Whether or not to open the folder after mount
   \fIopen_cmd\fR : what to use to open it (set to default will use the OS dependent tool)
.SS "The [config] section"
This section allows to import config from other sources
Repeat this section how often as necessary.
.PP
Fields :
   \fIimport\fR   : gives the path to an other source of configuration
              can be a local file or a url. Substitutions are applied.
.SS "The [require] section"
This section describes things that have to be met before letting user mount/umount filers
Repeat this section how often as necessary.
.PP
Fields that describe what to check :
   \fIping\fR : check ping to server
   \fIsmb\fR  : check connection to port 139 of the server
   \fIhttp\fR : check connection to port 80 of the server
   \fIurl\fR  : check download of that url (fails if return code != 200)
.PP
Fields concerning action taken when the test is not positive
   \fIload_cache\fR : loads config from cache, if any (default False).
   \fImsg\fR        : message to display
   \fIabort\fR      : whether or not exit the application
.SS "The [substitution] section"
This section describes a substitution that will be performed at run time by the script.
Repeat this section how often as necessary.
.PP
Fields :
   \fIlabel\fR      : what will be substituted
   \fIvalue\fR      : the value that will be used               (priority 1)
   \fIurl\fR        : if no value, get the value from this url  (priority 2)
                note : in case of multi-value given by the server
                (with "\n"), the user's choice is saved localy
   \fIurl_saved\fR  : same as url but always saves the value    (priority 3)
                localy for later use
   \fIask\fR        : if no value yet for this substitution     (priority 4)
                then ask this question to the user
   \fIconstraint\fR : force the value to follow this constraint
                can be : lowercase, uppercase
   \fIvalidate\fR   : url to be used to validate what the user typed. The 
                value is concatenated to that url. The answers are :
                "ok" means ok.
                "anything else" means not ok. That message is shown
                to the user.
.SS "The [mount] section"
This section describes one mount instruction. The fields necessary depends on the method (protocol) choosen. Those methods supported
yet are :
  \fIsmb\fR : generic SMB/CIFS (will depend on the Operating System)
  \fIgvfs_smb\fR   : uses gvfs-mount for CIFS/SMB shares in background (default for Linux)
  \fImount.cifs\fR : uses mount.cifs in background
  \fImount_smbfs\fR : uses mount_smbfs in background (default for MacOSX)
Repeat this section how often as necessary.
.PP
Fields for all :
  \fImethod\fR : which method to use (smb, gvfs_smb, mount.cifs, mount_smbfs, ...)
.PP
Fields for mount.cifs :
  \fIusername\fR   : for authtication while mounting
  \fIdomain\fR     : for authtication while mounting
  \fIauth_realm\fR : not the password, but the realm associated to it.
               If several mounts use the same auth_realm, then the
               password is only asked once.
  \fIserver_name\fR   : the fileserver
  \fIserver_path\fR   : the path (including share name) to mount
  \fIlocal_path\fR    : the path which will contain the mountpoint
  \fImount.cifs_filemode\fR : option given to mount.cifs
  \fImount.cifs_dirmode\fR  : option given to mount.cifs
  \fImount.cifs_options\fR  : option given to mount.cifs
.PP
Fields for gvfs_smb :
  \fIusername\fR   : for authtication while mounting
  \fIdomain\fR     : for authtication while mounting
  \fIauth_realm\fR : not the password, but the realm associated to it.
               If several mounts use the same auth_realm, then the
               password is only asked once.
  \fIserver_name\fR : the fileserver
  \fIserver_path\fR : the path (including share name) to mount
  \fIgvfs_symlink\fR : Enables the creation of a symbolic link to
                 "local_path" afer mount (default : True)
  \fIlocal_path\fR : the location where the mount will be made available
               via a symlink (only when gvfs_symlink is set to True)
.SS "The [message] section"
This section describes one message that is displayed to the user.
.PP
Fields :
  \fIlabel\fR     : what is displayed
  \fIcondition\fR : what has to be met to display this message (e.g. __VERSION__ < 0.4.0)
  \fIreset\fR     : enables a button to reset one substitution value (can
              be repeated)
  \fIabort\fR     : enables a "quit" button
  \fIrank\fR      : to order different messages
.SH FILES
.I /etc/mount_filers.conf
: System wide config file
.PP
.I $HOME/.mount_filers.conf
: Personal config file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mount_filers (1),
.SH AUTHOR
Samuel Bancal - EPFL/ENACIT (Samuel (dot) Bancal (at) epfl (dot) ch)

